PSP Documentation
Version: 4/16/2016

PSP stands for the Personal Software Process. It is a structured process to aid the 
software development process. PSP was created by Watts Humphrey and is trademarked 
by Carnegie Mellon University.

PSP allows developers to estimate and plan their work, meet commitments, and 
identify unreasonable deadlines. It also helps developers understand their 
performance and improve capability.

The process provides a basis for developing and using a personal process, discipline
to improve the developer's personal process, and data to improve productivity
and quality.

Included in the PSP are defined steps, standards and forms. It provides measurement
to manage personal work. It is a detailed procedure. The process is broken into 
three steps. Before the steps begin, the problem is described and the time and defect
logs are started. These logs are updated throughout the project.

The first step, PSP0, has three different phases. In the first phase, the planning
is done. In the planning phase, the requirements are stated, total development time
is estimated, and a plan summary form is filled out.

PSP0 has four forms involved. The first form is the project plan summary. This form 
summarizes the planned and actual time and defects in each phase. The second and third 
forms are the time recording log and the defect recording log. The last form is the 
defect type standard form. It is used to define the standard defect types so that 
each defect found can be categorized.

In the second step of PSP0, the actual development is done. The program is first designed
and then implemented. The program is then compiled and all defects, if any, are logged and
resolved. The program is then tested, and once again the defects and logged and fixed.
Finally, the time recording log is completed.

The last step of PSP0 is the postmortem. In the postmortem, the plan summary form is filled
out with the estimated time and the actual time taken, as well as the defects and size.

In PSP1, the data collected from PSP0 is used as a baseline to estimate how long a new
project will take to complete. Each completed project will add to the baseline data
to be used in future estimating. 

The focus of PSP2 is on design and quality management. It establishes two new phases 
which are the design review and the code review. By review the process, developers
can improve future processes by understanding how long tasks while take and how many
defects they can expect to introduce and remove.

In the Memoranda project, we created three tools to help aid the user with PSP. We made
a Project Plan Summary form, a Time Recording log, and a Defect Recording log. Along with
these tools, we also created examples that would help teach the user how they are supposed
to be used. These are included in PSPLearn.

A future feature would be a tool that would help the user learn the process by actually
doing it. By having the user actively involved in the process instead of just reading 
about it, they would be able to grasp a better understanding of the process.
